# So you're devrel curious 
If you asked 5 developer-advocates to define their profession, you would get at
least 12 different answers. So if you're looking for a place to ask devrel
people about devrel, maybe don't. 

Instead, imagine for a moment that you've created a legitimately, objectively
fantastic unicorn of a productivity tool for people who make software. Using
your tool, people who normally spend 4 hours doing a thing, can do the same
thing in negative 30 seconds. Your tool is so good it literally destroys the
laws of space-time. 5 people who began doing a thing with your tool right now
would be finished yesterday.

## So how do you get engineers to use it?

### Take it to the hackers
You might think to yourself _hey, my tool is so amazing, it will go viral_, so
you throw it on HackerNews and wait for the money to roll in. To your suprise
however, the HackerNews readership collectively decides your tool is an overt
attempt by fabian communists to destroy freedom, and that it represents a real
and profound threat to not only individual liberty, but also the sacred
block-chain panacea of economic inevitability. Then they Doxx you.

The problem with this plan is that you can't just show up out of the blue with
some shiny new tool proclaiming it's the final and ultimate solution to X and
expect to be taken seriously (even if your thing ACTUALLY IS the final ultimate
solution to X)

### Sales
You might think to yourself that you need a sales strategy, so you hire a
director of marketing who recruits a sales team from among his old fraternity
brothers. Your sales manager then proceeds spend a LOT of money on a billboard,
and then even more incentivizing his college buddies to do extremely
questionable things like cold-calling tech companies, pouncing on people like
jungle cats from the shadow of a booth at tech conferences, and "wining and
dining" corrupt VP's who will force their underlings to use your tool. 

The problem here is that you can't "sell" something you don't understand to
engineers, anymore than you can "sell" lettuce to alligators.  

### Pre-Sales
You might think to yourself pre-sales engineers are the way to go, since they
deal with the engineers directly, so you work with consultancy shops whose
surreptitious goal is to infect with your tool, those companies large enough to
be able to afford engineering consultancy services. Before long your tool is
all over the bare-metal blade servers of a thousand unsuspecting corporations,
leaving literally hundreds of thousands of confounded bizdev programmers in
business casual kaki-slacks, completely ignorant of how to operate their own
computers anymore. And so of course they all immediately reformat your shit off
their hard-drives and complain about you on twitter while lying to their
managers about the tool still being installed. 

The problem here is that consultants always try to fix cultural problems with
tools, thereby giving the tools a bad name. Unless they're culture-consultants,
in which case they mostly just fire people.

## Engineers react to authenticity and nothing else

Here's the thing -- and I grant you this is a hard truth to accept -- no matter
how good your product is, no matter how many in-the-trenches people it could
help, you can't go from zero to adoption in today's tech market without doing
inhuman things and becoming in the process a blood-sucking, soul-devouring
demon. Literally the harder you try to directly make engineers use your
product, the more you will damage your own reputation. If you don't believe me,
ask Elon Musk.

The reality is that real adoption takes investment. It takes investment in
community to build actual, beneficial rapport with your prospective customer
base. It takes investment in positive awareness efforts so that people who have
the problem you're trying to solve will organically discover you, and consider
you as a prospective solution.  It takes investment in the open-source
solar-system that orbits the problem you are trying to solve, so that there are
pathways from free tools to your tool AND VICE VERSA.

To make those investments, you need people who understand the process of
software and operations engineering. People who empathize with the needs of the
people who need your tool. You need programmers who can contribute and maintain
open source projects that relate to your tool. You need tech-savvy storytellers
who can translate your engineering endeavors into a story that can be told at
the podium at engineering conferences, and on tech blogs. 

You need to engage with the people who are interested in finding tools like
yours -- people who will become your advocate within their organization. 

Speaking of organization, you need community builders who can organize meetups,
and hackathons -- who can nurture and grow your user community while managing
poisonous personalities and human conflicts -- who can guide you in the savvy
sponsorship of community events -- who can tirelessly perform the _constant
uphill slog_ of keeping your social media and marketing voice authentic and
human. 

Finally, you need people to write quickstart apps, develop libraries and
ESPECIALLY to illicit and capture feedback from real, in-the-trenches engineers
who are trying to use your product, to make it as easy as possible for everyone
who tries your product to have a successful experience.

## Yep, that's pretty much devrel

Like a good psychic cold-read, every dev-advocate exists within the paragraphs
above and yet no two are alike. Some are world-class programmers and others
wouldn't know assembly from Haskell. Some have degrees in conflict resolution
and others dropped out of high school. The one thing they share is the ability
to recognize the particular ways in which a given tech company is failing to
reach its intended audience, and formulate a means to rectify those
shortcomings through some combination of community outreach, documentation
efforts and code-writing.

Anyway, that's pretty much the job. If you've gotten this far and you're still
glad you asked, DevRel is probably for you, and bonus, it's a great time to to
be looking for DevRel opportunities! Below you'll find links to more reading
and resources to help you join us in our awesome but somewhat confusing
endeavors. 

Welcome aboard!
